docs & readme: what/why/how (#433)
iterative/terraform-provider-iterative: README.md

![Terraform Provider Iterative](https://static.iterative.ai/img/cml/banner-terraform.png)
![TPI](https://static.iterative.ai/img/cml/banner-terraform.png)

> # Iterative Provider [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)

Author: how about this (from https://github.com/iterative/static/pull/8)?

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/static/tpi-banner/img/cml/banner-terraform.png)

> # Iterative Provider [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)

Reviewer: Much better!

> # Iterative Provider [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)

Author: resolving here as tracked in https://github.com/iterative/static/pull/8

> # Terraform Provider Iterative

Author: ```suggestion
# Terraform Provider Iterative (TPI)
```

# Terraform Provider Iterative

The Iterative Provider is a Terraform plugin that enables full lifecycle
management of computing resources for machine learning pipelines, including GPUs, from your favorite cloud vendors.
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)

> The Iterative Provider makes it easy to:

Author: discussion moved to comment above

> - **Orchestrate Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading pages of documentation

Reviewer 2: > _without reading pages of documentation_

[This is not a pipe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Treachery_of_Images)

Author: ```suggestion
- **Orchestrate Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading eldritch scrolls of documentation
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me! 🧝🏼‍♂️📜

> - **Orchestrate Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading pages of documentation

Author: ```suggestion
- **Provision Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading pages of documentation
```

> - **No lock-in**: switch between cloud vendors with minimal configuration

Author: ```suggestion
- **No lock-in**: switch between cloud vendors with ease
```

> Iterative's Provider is a [Terraform](https://terraform.io) plugin built with machine learning pipelines in mind. It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources (including GPUs) from several cloud vendors:

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Kubernetes (K8s)

> With a minimal configuration unified across cloud vendors, the aim is to easily move local experiments to the cloud, transparently resume from interrupted low-cost spot instances, and avoid being charged for unused cloud resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure, and remove storage upon download of results).

Reviewer: It's a bit too long description. Can it be simplified? 

Also, I'm trying to understand the difference between this and description from the above. Is it a part or value-proposition, problem, solution or unfair advantage (see Lean Canvas). It is better to be clear on this.

Author: no it's just repetition to drive home the message in a different way (prose rather than bullet points). Happy to remove instead

> The aim is to easily (minimal configuration unified across cloud vendors) move local experiments to the cloud, use low-cost spot instances without losing progress, and avoid being charged for unused cloud resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure, and remove storage upon download of results).

Reviewer 2: > _without losing progress_

Seems a bit unspecific. Would “resuming” be a more familiar concept than “not losing progress”?

Reviewer 2: > _easily (minimal configuration unified across cloud vendors) move_

That parenthesis broke my focus in a thousand pieces 🤯

Author: > broke my focus

ostentatious lengthy gorgeously prevaricating adjective chaining FTW

```suggestion
With a minimal configuration unified across cloud vendors, the aim is to easily move local experiments to the cloud, transparently resume from interrupted low-cost spot instances, and avoid being charged for unused cloud resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure, and remove storage upon download of results).
```

Reviewer 2: I like it

![TPI](https://static.iterative.ai/img/cml/banner-terraform.png)

# Terraform Provider Iterative

[![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/-docs-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)

> [![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/Test?label=tests&logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/actions/workflows/test.yml)

Author: ```suggestion
[![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/Test?label=tests&logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/actions/workflows/test.yml)

TPI is a [Terraform](https://terraform.io) plugin built with machine learning pipelines in mind. Full lifecycle management of computing resources (including GPUs and respawning spot instances) from several cloud vendors... without needing to be a cloud expert.
```

How's this?

- **Orchestrate Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading pages of documentation

> - **Sync & Execute**: move data & run code in the cloud with minimal configuration

Author: ```suggestion
- **Sync & Execute**: sync data & run code in the cloud
```

> - **Low cost**: auto-recovery from spot/preemptible instances to vastly reduce cost

Author: ```suggestion
- **Low cost**: transparent auto-recovery from interrupted spot/preemptible instances to vastly reduce cost
```

> - **No waste**: auto-cleanup unused resources

Author: ```suggestion
- **No waste**: auto-cleanup unused resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure & remove storage upon download of results)
```

- **No lock-in**: switch between cloud vendors with ease

Iterative's Provider is a [Terraform](https://terraform.io) plugin built with machine learning pipelines in mind. It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources (including GPUs) from several cloud vendors:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Kubernetes (K8s)

With a minimal configuration unified across cloud vendors, the aim is to easily move local experiments to the cloud, transparently resume from interrupted low-cost spot instances, and avoid being charged for unused cloud resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure, and remove storage upon download of results).

## Usage

See the [Getting Started](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/getting-started) guide for a more detailed guide.

> ### Install the provider

Reviewer: Why we should start/focused on contributors not users? Let's focus on users.

Author: Exactly - move the contributor section to the bottom. Forgot to update this bit though :facepalm:

Author: Minified & corrected.

![TPI](https://static.iterative.ai/img/cml/banner-terraform.png)

# Terraform Provider Iterative (TPI)

[![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/-docs-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)
[![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/Test?label=tests&logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Apache-2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-Apache%202.0-blue)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/blob/master/LICENSE)

> - **Provision Resources**: create cloud compute & storage resources without reading pages of documentation

Reviewer: Should we mention GPUs? It is good at least for SEO.

Reviewer 2: 💯

Author: already mentioned in the one-liner above. Probably odd to repeat?

Reviewer 2: Even if it's odd to repeat, _compute_ might be a bit too general.

Reviewer: Right, **compute** is too abstract.

**GPU** term is used once in the entire page. We definitely need to repeat it. The question is where :) 

I'd add some comment in tutorial for example on how to change the machine to GPU with a comment that GPU should be enabled for you.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Provision Resources**: create cloud compute (CPU, GPU, RAM) & storage resources without reading pages of documentation
```

- **Sync & Execute**: easily sync & run local data & code in the cloud
- **Low cost**: transparent auto-recovery from interrupted low-cost spot/preemptible instances
- **No waste**: auto-cleanup unused resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure & remove storage upon download of results)
- **No lock-in**: switch between several cloud vendors with ease due to concise unified configuration

Supported cloud vendors include:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Kubernetes (K8s)

## Usage

> See the [Getting Started](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/getting-started) guide for a more detailed guide.

Reviewer: Link to Getting Started seems like duplication.

Why the Getting Started is better than the current doc? Even if it's better - can we make the current doc to this level and get rid of the Getting Started link?

Reviewer 2: If we plan to mirror the getting started guide in the readme, it should probably be a purposeful decision.

If not, it's probably better to link from the latter to the former or define why they should be different (e.g. different audience)

Author: The *Getting Started* docs are currently a very slightly more commented version of this Readme *Usage* section. In future I'd expect more links/asides/notes/FAQs to be in the *Getting Started* docs.

Always best to keep the Readme super terse (just enough for a beginner to run - no advanced edge cases/discussion), but link to the more verbose docs.

Reviewer: Having the links if okay. But it feels like we are confusing users. User see a link to getting Started and some "Define task" / tutorial right after. What I should do getting started or Tutorial? What is the difference?

Author: moved to later (help/FAQ section)

### Requirements

> - [Install Terraform 1.0 or greater](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform)

Reviewer: It might be better to mention a command instead of an external page link.

This might be a good opportunity to check version of terraform (and get rid of --upgrage option in `terraform init` - see below)

Reviewer 2: 😅 Installing Terraform does require a whole page; instructions vary greatly between operating systems.

I don't know if linking to the official documentation will deter any users, but it's probably better than maintaining an outdated duplicate.

Reviewer 2: As stared below, `--upgrade` is not needed unless you (re)compile the provider.

Reviewer: Yes, these are good reasons to keep the link to it. The link should stay. But at the end of the day I need to visit an external page just to copy-past `brew install terraform`.

I was hoping that we can provide shortcuts for Mac and Linux users. 

Also, we lose some users who click to external link. Especially the once who is not familiar with Terraform.

Author: Makes sense. Added one-liners for most cases.

- Create an account with any supported cloud vendor and expose its [authentication credentials via environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs#authentication)

> ### Create a test file

Reviewer: Why "empty directory" is required. To my opinion it should be a project directory with all code and data.

Reviewer: We need to decide on happy path - what is a minimum code example to give value for users.

Happy path might be:
1. Run user project in cloud/GPU
2. Run TF provider to make sure it works.

I think, we should focus on (1). Otherwise, we need another part of the tutorial n how to transfer user's project to working TPI.

Author: yes changed.

- **Low cost**: transparent auto-recovery from interrupted low-cost spot/preemptible instances
- **No waste**: auto-cleanup unused resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure & remove storage upon download of results)
- **No lock-in**: switch between several cloud vendors with ease due to concise unified configuration

Supported cloud vendors include:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Kubernetes (K8s)

## Usage

### Requirements

- [Install Terraform 1.0+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform), e.g.:
  + Brew (Homebrew/Mac OS): `brew tap hashicorp/tap && brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform`
  + Choco (Chocolatey/Windows): `choco install terraform`
  + Conda (Anaconda): `conda install -c conda-forge terraform`
  + Debian (Ubuntu/Linux):
    ```
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common curl
    curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install terraform
    ```

> - Create an account with any supported cloud vendor and expose its [authentication credentials via environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/authentication)

Reviewer: the link is broken

Re the text. It might be better to specify that it is about AWS/Azure/GCP. Initially I was thinking about cloud account in Terraform 😅 Also, it's not enough to have an account, user needs to set up credentials.

Any ideas for shortcuts here? Let's assume a user has credentials already, how to onboard them faster? How user can check if credentials set up properly?

  + Conda (Anaconda): `conda install -c conda-forge terraform`
  + Debian (Ubuntu/Linux):
    ```
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common curl
    curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install terraform
    ```
- Create an account with any supported cloud vendor and expose its [authentication credentials via environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/authentication)

Have a feature request or found a bug? Let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/issues). Have questions? Join our [community on Discord](https://discord.gg/bzA6uY7); we'll be happy to help you get started!
### Define a Task

## License
In a project root directory, create a file named `main.tf` with the following contents:

Iterative Provider is released under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/blob/master/LICENSE).

## Development

> ### Install Go 1.17+

Reviewer: I was thinking... what if a user does not have any ml training script on heirs hands? Or a user has a script but the environment settings will prevent user from executing it? Does it make sense to provide a script in additional to the TF file? 

It should reduce the entrance bar quite significantly.

An ideal tutorial should have all the commands, scripts and data I need to run to get a result. Example - dvc tutorial.

Author: > user does not have any ml training script

I don't follow, do you mean #305?

> user has a script but the environment settings will prevent executing

Do you mean the script won't execute locally or won't execute on the cloud? And why won't it execute? Because of missing env vars such as `NUM_EPOCHS` or something? Or missing dependencies like `numpy`?

Reviewer: I mean, user might not have any ml training script at all (or it won't work).
In DVC tutorial, user downloads code as the first step. Do we need something similar here?

Author: ah so an example repo? No we don't have one (yet). Technically we'd probably need 3 - one each for AWS/Azure/GCP.

Reviewer 2: > _we'd probably need 3 - one each for AWS/Azure/GCP_

😬 Unless we use [iterative/example-repos-dev](https://github.com/iterative/example-repos-dev) or similar, it doesn't look like the best idea from a maintainability standpoint.

Reviewer 2: Yes, the only required change is `cloud = "whatever"` 😅

Author: I would think at a minimum:

- `main.tf`: `cloud = "X"`
- `README.md`: "How to set `export X_CREDENTIALS`"

Plus probably:

- `requirements.txt`
- `run.py`
- `.github/workflows/cml.yaml`

Author: don't think this complexity is needed in the readme here. Right now it's a self-contained[^1] example that supports users both with and without a script file.

[^1]: apart from the how-to-setup-credentials external link

Run this once (in the directory containing `main.tf`) to download the `required_providers`:

```console
terraform init
```

### Run a Task

> - `terraform apply`: launch cloud instance(s), upload `workdir`, and run `script`

Reviewer: It might be confusing a bit. Should user upload `workdir` after `terraform apply`? This how I read this for the 1st time.

I'd suggest keeping one line per action/command as we have above. Like:

### Launch an training job

```
terraform apply
```

This command creates an instance in a cloud based on `main.tf` specification. After the instance is running it uploads the current directory (`workdir`) and data directory (we don't have this one, right? :) ) to the instance and executes your training script (`script`).

In case of spot instances, the cloud will run recovery logic using the auto-scaling group. 

Once the script is finishes (or fails) the instance will be terminated automatically. Results and logs are periodicaly syncing to cloud storage.

Like this....

Reviewer: It should work e2e and show the use case. Otherwise, we are increasing time-to-value quite a lot. One of the most important metrics.

Author: better now?

![TPI](https://static.iterative.ai/img/cml/banner-tpi.svg)

> # Terraform Provider Iterative (TPI)

Reviewer 3: I know it's beyond scope but is a preposition missing from the tool's expanded name? I.g. Terraform Provider **for** Iterative (Tools)? "Iterative's Terraform Provider" would also be more readable IMO but at this point changing the TLA is prob. out of the question.

Reviewer 3: Also on the title. The confusion is reinforced by the [official docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs) site calling it just "iterative provider" (top of nav).

[![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/-docs-5c4ee5?logo=terraform)](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs)
[![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/Test?label=tests&logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Apache-2.0][licence-badge]][licence-file]

> TPI is a [Terraform](https://terraform.io) plugin built with machine learning in mind. Full lifecycle management of computing resources (including GPUs and respawning spot instances) from several cloud vendors (AWS, Azure, GCP, K8s)... without needing to be a cloud expert.

Reviewer 3: Could we be more emphatic on why the machine learning focus is important? I guess it's not a common integration or offering out there in the world of TF providers.

Also should we mention it's designed specifically (though not exclusively I think) for certain Iterative tools? Connecting this with CML early could make sense for example.

- **Provision Resources**: create cloud compute (CPU, GPU, RAM) & storage resources without reading pages of documentation
- **Sync & Execute**: easily sync & run local data & code in the cloud
- **Low cost**: transparent auto-recovery from interrupted low-cost spot/preemptible instances
- **No waste**: auto-cleanup unused resources (terminate compute instances upon job completion/failure & remove storage upon download of results)
- **No lock-in**: switch between several cloud vendors with ease due to concise unified configuration

Supported cloud vendors include:

- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Kubernetes (K8s)

## Usage

### Requirements

- [Install Terraform 1.0+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform), e.g.:
  - Brew (Homebrew/Mac OS): `brew tap hashicorp/tap && brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform`

>   - Choco (Chocolatey/Windows): `choco install terraform`

Reviewer 3: OK I see frmo the README that the **Usage** section (in **Get Started** in docs) comes first. So Authentication should be under GS in the nav, I think.

Reviewer 3: > Usage section (Get Started page in docs

Call both Usage or both Get Started, BTW? I'd incline for the latter based on how the content is presented.

  - Conda (Anaconda): `conda install -c conda-forge terraform`
  - Debian (Ubuntu/Linux):
    ```
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common curl
    curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"
    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install terraform
    ```
- Create an account with any supported cloud vendor and expose its [authentication credentials via environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/authentication)

> ### Define a Task

Reviewer 3: 💅🏼  Docs should also read "Define" I think. Currently [the GS](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/getting-started#defining-a-task) reads "Defining".

    mkdir results
    echo "Hello World!" > results/greeting.txt
  END
}
```

See [the reference](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#argument-reference) for the full list of options for `main.tf` -- including more information on [`machine` types](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-type) with and without GPUs.

Run this once (in the directory containing `main.tf`) to download the `required_providers`:

```
terraform init
```

### Run Task

```
terraform apply
```

This launches a `machine` in the `cloud`, uploads `workdir`, and runs the `script`. Upon completion (or error), the `machine` is terminated.

With spot/preemptible instances (`spot >= 0`), auto-recovery logic and persistent storage will be used to relaunch interrupted tasks.

### Query Status

Results and logs are periodically synced to persistent cloud storage. To query this status and view logs:

```
terraform refresh
terraform show
```

### Stop Tasks

```
terraform destroy
```

This terminates the `machine` (if still running), downloads `output`, and removes the persistent `disk_size` storage.

## Help

> The [getting started guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/getting-started) has some more information.

Reviewer 3: > [The GS] has some more information.

Does it? They look vey similar at first glance. Why refer to almost the same doc but in another site? Hard to find meaningful differences

Reviewer 3: Could instead link from relevant places in the README to the other docs, for now Azure Kubernetes Service and Generic Machine Types.

  required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}
resource "iterative_task" "example" {
  cloud   = "aws" # or any of: gcp, az, k8s
  machine = "m"   # medium, or any of: l, xl, m+k80, xl+v100, ...

  storage {
    workdir = "."
    output  = "results"
  }
  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    mkdir results
    echo "Hello World!" > results/greeting.txt
  END
}
```

> See the [Reference](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task) for the full list of options for `main.tf`.

Reviewer: Should the link point directly to References? https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#argument-reference

### Initialize the provider

Run this once to pull the latest TPI plugin:

```console

> terraform init --upgrade

Reviewer: Does --upgrade really needed? Can we simplify the flow by getting rid of this?

Reviewer 2: It is needed for development (after every build), not for users. We should probably remove `--upgrade` from the tutorial. 👍🏼

Author: If/when we release a new option (adding to the API) the user would either need `--upgrade` (or `version` in `main.tf`). Maybe not worth complicating things over.

I don't have a strong opinion.

```suggestion
terraform init
```

```console
terraform apply
```

> 

Reviewer: "Test the provider"? Why it is test? It should be a tutorial, not test.

What happened after test? What user should expect? How to check the job is running? How to get results?

Author: good point; fixed.

## Help

Have a feature request or found a bug? Let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/issues). Have questions? Join our [community on Discord](https://discord.gg/bzA6uY7); we'll be happy to help you get started!

## Contributing

Instead of using the latest stable release, a local copy of the repository must be used.

1. [Install Go 1.17+](https://golang.org/doc/install)
2. Clone the repository & build the provider
   ```console
   git clone https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative
   cd terraform-provider-iterative
   make install
   ```

> 3. Use `source = "github.com/iterative/iterative"` in your `main.tf` to use the local repository (`source = "iterative/iterative"` will download the latest release instead), and run `terraform init --upgrade`

Reviewer: It feels like we need "Copyright" section. See DVC.

Author: I think I wrote a lot of the DVC readme, ha.

Not sure the same is needed here - already added the licence badge to the top of the readme & docs site (and removed the licence section) in this PR.

Reviewer: It looks like a best practice in Readme. And also a bit safer. But I'm ok with either.

Author: ok re-added to bottom

```console
terraform apply
```

## Help

Have a feature request or found a bug? Let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/issues). Have questions? Join our [community on Discord](https://discord.gg/bzA6uY7); we'll be happy to help you get started!

> ## Contributing

Reviewer: I'd suggest to not spend too much space/text for contributors. Can we simplify this part or move it to docs.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a separate `CONTRIBUTING.md` like in https://github.com/iterative/cml/pull/513?

Author: minified

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to keep somewhere a callout stating that `make install` and `terraform init --upgrade` are the development _abracadabra_. Probable near the `github.com/iterative/iterative` note.

Reviewer 2: Else, it might be harder to figure out how to compile and test any modifications.

Author: 6a0ffa2?
